[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we're joined by
Casper stter the co-founder at d8x a
company that is building a Perpetual
it's a DEX that's building Perpetual
Futures thanks a lot for having me and
yes okay I just wanted to make sure that
I I got it right because you got it yes
you have kind of a bunch of really cool
hats with quantina and then d8x and some
of the great test Network that you guys
have done and and some other exciting
news uh that's coming up on the road map
so I just wanted to make sure that I got
that right to kind of kick off the
conversation when I was doing my
background research on the work that you
do and your team on the quantina
LinkedIn page it says that quantina is
creating incorruptible Financial
machines serving people for a fair world
so I just think that that is a
fascinating kind of mission statement so
how did you and your team come up with
that mission statement and from your
perspective how do uh these
decentralized Financial machines create
a fairer world so quantina our our
software company has been founded by me
and my my co-founder and our background
is trfi so we we spent a long time in in
in trfi working at relatively large
Banks and one of the key things that we
saw there is that Regulators the state
but also Banks they spend tons of
resources in order to build a whole like
controlling framework they call it
compliance they call it risk to control
the middleman right and we both were
fascinated since the start to be able to
actually code machines Financial
machines do not need that level of
control um because there's no middleman
to control in the first place so this is
kind of the starting point of of the
mission statement and I I fundamentally
believe that build machines that cannot
be corrupted cannot do not rely on on
somebody who has to make the right
decision because it's coded in in a way
that that works um can help to fix a lot
of the issues we see with traditional
finance and that's kind of the origin
story of the mission statement I hope
I'm not like kicking a hornet's nest
here but when we think of like B and
traditional financial institutions like
intermediation is kind of their bread
and butter so don't these decentralized
networks kind of cut into their
opportunities to make money to manage
grab hold on to power what are the ways
in which Folks at banks are thinking
about this technology when it kind of
vets into their business models um well
yes uh they do it in in the business
model at some point but I think right
now Banks large Banks they do not really
think about defi at least they might
think about cryptos and asset calls that
they can offer to to to retail clients
for example so I think at least from
what I'm seeing here first and foremost
the interest of those Banks if you look
for example at Swiss banks is to offer
retail clients trading and earn fees on
that uh so kind of the classical model
just expanded to a different asset class
um I don't think they are playing around
a lot with decentralized financial
applications because uh I mean your
point is right right this kind of goes
against what they stand for so you're
based out of Switzerland correct indeed
yes um I saw it's we're recording this
uh in the last week of April and I
recently saw on Twitter that there is
some sort of proposition being put forth
for a portion of the State Treasury to
be held in Bitcoin or something to this
effect so since I live in the US and
it's a regulatory mess here I'm always
jealous of Forward Thinking countries so
what are kind of uh The Regulators and
the policy makers and the folks in
charge in Switzerland how are they
thinking about Bitcoin and digital
assets and we we'll just stick with the
asset class yeah so I mean I wasn't
aware about that proposal to be honest I
know that um for example Swiss Pension
funds so in the Swiss pension system uh
you now have the option to invest part
of Pension funds into Bitcoin which
which is a recent change that happened a
few weeks ago but in in general if you
look at how regulators and and also
politicians look at crypto in
Switzerland it's kind of open uh so they
have been relatively early in proposing
legislation that I would qualify
as pragmatic and they also managed to
create kind of a niche so you have many
foundations which are in Switzerland um
uh that are active in the space uh you
have many companies that try to do stuff
so I think from from that point of view
the country is relatively open um I
think the financial Market regulator
called finma understands that you cannot
simply look at truly decentralized
Finance like you're looking at
traditional Finance so there's at least
from what I perceive and understanding
that same risk same rules is not really
applicable here because the risks are
not the same um so that I think that's
that's a key Insight that um a regulator
should have if he thinks about
a truly decentralized system and that um
is yeah very interesting from from from
our point of view obviously but it's
also involving it's not clear it's it's
you know it's not set in stone let's say
yeah I mean we're we're definitely in
the uh I think it was muhamad Gandhi who
had the first they ignore you then they
laugh at you then they fight you then
you win phase and I feel like to a
certain extent uh we're in the then they
fight you phase in a lot of different
parts of the world um some areas look a
little bit more uh beneficial towards
this emerging industry and some don't so
I'm kind of jealous for folks who live
in forward-thinking regions of the world
um so thanks for kind of taking that
little s side step with me why I'm
really excited to have this conversation
with you is you bring a really
interesting background in Academia you
have a PhD and your thesis was centered
on economics political science and
social sciences I myself studied urban
planning which was a multidisiplinary
field as well where we had to think
about all sorts of different uh
disciplines from economics to social
concerns to environmental concerns to
engineering you name it so I love the
kind of multifocus backgrounds that your
thesis was focused on so can you briefly
share what your PhD is in what your
thesis was on and how you defended it
and kind of what made you want to study
those depths of economics
so what I did ultimately was heavily
data driven thesis that we we we looked
at distribution of emissions around the
world and how that connects to economic
activity uh and um so I majored in
economics uh I did my grad school
economics and I did what I would say
applied economics as a main like thesis
field kind of like almost 10 years ago
when I defended so some time back but
what I what I really liked is trying to
understand also see the data and work of
the data uh to to understand what what
what happens so um I for example tried
to understand uh how to build a good
index to measure how how different
countries deal with climate change
policies um which
is at the end of the day a purely data
driven thing where you just try to
understand how you can make sense of the
data that is around and my goal was
always to to try to to get a grasp of
how stuff works um I I like to think in
in models try to you know have a simple
but robust way to look at things and and
and for that economics helps a lot yeah
very cool and you kind of gave away the
time frame in which you were defending
your thesis and maybe 10 years ago 2014
Bitcoin itself is 5 years old four and a
half years old when I was in grad school
10 years ago I remember just looking at
a news article about Bitcoin dropping
half in price and me just being like Oh
that's a crazy scary asset and I just
ignored it for another four years yeah I
feel you there so we're we your
economics friends we're your professors
uh we're grad students we're undergrad
students talking about Bitcoin were you
talking about it back then was it kind
of like a joke what was the the general
Vibe like I think wasn't much of a topic
at the time cuz like grad school it was
like 2012 is so so for sure wasn't the
topic for me in 2012
unfortunately but I think around like 15
16 um we started to to discuss Loosely
about you know monetary policies and
what it means to and that was kind of
interesting um also from a from an
academic point of view and then ethereum
and possibilties to actually build like
Financial tools on the Chain uh in in a
even in in immutable way that that was
kind of the turning point for me trying
to listen so it was like the developer
developability on ethereum and not
necessarily like the potential
macroeconomic impact that an asset like
Bitcoin could have okay both but the
first one was more like the the
potential impact of Bitcoin was more
like a philosophical thing I would say
whereas the second one is kind of
something you can actually do right so
you can actually build stuff which which
is great right I mean that's so that
that for me was realizing that that's
possible and that you can build tools
was kind of a breakthrough and so the
same for my my co-founder and did you
before you were working on what you're
working on now did you dabble in like
blockchain development did you just kind
of keep your ears to the ground and and
read papers um how did kind of your
Genesis as a builder start so I kind of
mainly followed the space I tried to do
um some Consulting work for some
projects try to help them on financial
engineering questions and and things
like that um and then gradually moved
towards uh DX and quer um and there
really started building stuff um so the
the background is kind of a bit the
mixed background between my hat as an
economist uh and how you would design
stuff and my my coding skills are kind
of let's say secondary I would qualify
them definitely not the best developer
uh and uh I also mainly have like a
background in Quant things so I used to
to work in Python and in R and it's my
kind kind of my Genesis of how I I came
to where we currently are so mentioning
uh your Quant background you actually
spent um almost seven years at UBS a
global firm providing Financial Services
in over 50 countries for folks who
aren't aware and you were working on on
models and Performing quantitative
analysis so what were're and and and
love this because not only do you have
this PhD in in economics but you also
have experience and and uh boots on the
ground working for these institutions
we're trying to replace or or or improve
or however you want to relate to it um
so what were sort of the regions of the
world you were focused on while you were
at UBS and what was some of the work
that you were doing there um as it
pertained to to quantitative analysis um
so I did build up different teams um in
Europe and in Asia uh and what we did is
we looked so Banks they they use models
like quantitative models to do stuff um
they use models for decision- making
they use Alco trading uh for example
they have models behind that they use
also models for risk assessments and the
if they interact with like Regulators
Regulators ask them to run for example
stress tests to understand how the bank
um would behave in case of stress event
now all this is based on a on a large
battery of models and what we did what
my team uh did is they looked at those
models and try to understand whether or
not the models work uh what doesn't work
and how you can improve them so it was
kind of a very geeky job if you want so
you really need to like models um but it
was interesting because you have an
Insight in how um Banks but also
Regulators think about controlling the
middleman right so because all this or a
large part of that is about how you
different ways of controlling the
middleman and so I'm the team was
composed of um economists mathematicians
statisticians um physicists doesn't
really I mean kind of quantitative um
people and we we we we assess those
models um and and try to say whether or
not the model works or doesn't or or
doesn't work so when you're looking back
on some of the models that were probably
the most accurate what were some of the
key ingredients that made a model
accurate or what was I hope I'm not
putting you into a corner painting you
into a corner but like how accurate were
these models and
um models are always models right uh so
you are always wrong by by definition
simpler models I think work better than
very very large and complicated models
uh for for a time I looked at
forecasting models so models that are
used to forecast
microeconomic variables
and I mean the longer you forecast the
worse right uh I mean that's that's
that's clear and the more let's say if
you look at at if you try to forecast
oil prices for example uh which are
heavily affected by like Exogen shocks
that you cannot really model you you
have no chance right you you're lost so
I think the the key thing and that's
also something that is important for
defi I believe is to understand that you
actually need to look at your models and
you need to test them so also behind the
adex for example there is an underlining
model of how um risk is managed in the
exchange uh and one tool which was very
useful uh which traditional Banks do
stress testing uh can be applied
essentially one to one uh on on defi
protocols so you can stress test a
protocol you can see how
um for gaunlet for example is doing that
right um and and we do that as well for
for us how how do does the protocol
react under different simulation
assumptions under different stress
scenarios and what's the consequence for
for the user ultimately right so I think
this is um a skill that is uh needed if
you want to really develop um the
applications in my previous career when
I was an urban planner one of the things
that drove me crazy was I would spend a
year and a half to create a long-term
plan for a highway Corridor and then
that would get put on the shelf for 5
years and nobody would look at it and I
couldn't stand it it it actually like
drove me insane so did you find that
there was something similar with models
that you would create that were never
accurate and you felt like you were
always working on these things and they
never turned out the information in the
way that you wanted to um was this
something that kind of like led to your
departure from UBS or was it kind of
this
draw this desire to build in in this
decentralized ecosystem um what was kind
of like the reason why you left and and
came to build here it was the the second
for sure so I I I knew that I wanted to
build a business I knew that I wanted to
do something that is potentially useful
um and that's how I ended up here so um
mubis was nice I learned a lot uh made
made some good connections but for me it
was clear that together with my
co-founder we wanted to do stuff and and
we wanted to do stuff the right way and
yeah that's that's how we ended up here
so what connections are you leveraging
today then are you leveraging kind of
friends and and colleagues you've made
um in the past few years in in the defi
space or are you finding that you're
able to pick up the phone and call some
of your own old uh UBS or trafi
connections to kind of pitch them on
what you're working on so we tried to do
both so the way we think about DX is we
built a trade engine that is fully on
chain um and we built it as a wi label
solution so what you can do is you can
ultimately for example we have a
frontend kit what you can do is you can
take the front end kit brand it in your
brand assets as a as a third- party
company and and offer that to your
customers now as of today um our
partners are mainly defin native
organizations think for example of
spotex that doesn't have per would like
to add per doesn't want to grow the
liquidity and just plugs into into thex
using their own um brand fronted But
ultimately what we plan to do is to
offer that also to more traditional
organizations so if you if you look at
Europe for example uh Switzerland
specifically because I just know the
example B retail focused Banks they
started to offer spot spot trading uh in
crypto to their clients now how do they
do that they they don't build up the
whole infrastructure from scratch and
simply they you know what they do is
they use a wide legel solution and um
can offer that to their clients in that
way so we think that this is something
that will happen as well on the
derivative sites and that's why um we
that's at least one part of the reason
why we went for a wide label solution
because we think that if you really have
decentralized tools that work um and
those institutions are entering you
better make sure that they use them uh
instead of them turning the space into
something which which I don't think it
should be so that so to answer your
question I think we try to do both it's
not like I can pick up the phone and
call the COO of UPS unfortunately but um
it helps to to have seen both sides and
kind of have an understanding of what
might be interesting for for for such
players that that enter at some point I
want to just uh take a step back before
we take two steps forward and maybe help
um Define some terms so that folks who
are listening to this who might not be
in the Quant space who might not be
really that far deep into trafy or
anything like that just to kind of help
um provide some definitions for terms
that might come up through our
conversation so if these are really
simple easy terms for you then forgive
me but I just want to make sure we're
all on the same playing field so I'm
just going to throw out some terms and
just hear your definition and then I'll
throw out another term um so the first
is actually white label solution what is
that and why is it so important for
Banks um a white solution is basically
so you think of a company that builds a
product uh and another company can take
that product brand it under their brand
and use it so why is it important for
banks because Banks usually buy products
and don't develop them inhouse there are
exceptions um very large Banks do that
but like medium-sized Banks they often
buy um a solution for example take zxo
bank it's a bank that offers classical
trading Solutions
um and some of the smaller Banks they
simply buy their trading solution to be
able to offer to their clients um
trading so that's that's that's but but
you know in in defi this I would say can
go further um so for
example our front end kit that we
developed it's an open source
full-fledged front end for perex if you
are a large K and you would like to spin
up your own trading front end and earn
earn uh revenue from from Trading
activity of your community and gather
your community around a central place
you can do that that's also a form of
white labeling right so you would use
your K branding on your per tax from
then so just to be it's not just for
banks ah perfect okay um next uh term
Perpetual Futures how do they differ
from spot you spot you basically buy the
asset Perpetual Futures allows allow you
to speculate on price moves um either
price go up price go down by depositing
a certain amount of collateral um and
then choosing a certain um amount of
Leverage and so the way I think about
Perpetual Futures is basically Futures
but without an expiry date so um you can
hold your position open as long as
you're not liquidated um indefinitely
provided that you pay or receive funding
rate payments depends a bit on the
exchange that that has set up the
purpose so I've always been kind of
curious because um cryptocurrencies are
just such a volatile asset class and
maybe your average retail user
who sees that they could go 100x with uh
5% price movement maybe that excites
them but they don't understand that
there's also factors that could
liquidate them so what's like a good use
case for uh a Perpetual Futures Market
to exist um maybe it would be the Hedge
uh I'm not sure um maybe you could just
help highlight that I would say if you
look at the state of crypto today it's
speculation it's clear it's by far the
most like per specifically or like the
most successful durative product uh in
in the space right now if you look at a
more the more traditional space at trfi
um that changes so there Futures are
mainly used for hatching purposes and
I think that over time this will also be
the case in crypto one of the key
reasons we designed the per the way we
did is specifically that so we want to
make sure that you have an onchain per
that you can actually use to hatch
yourself meaning you don't pay holding
shees that are very high um you pay just
if you're on the side that has less um
more demand you pay a funding rate
otherwise you receive that but if you
look at the current generation of
onchain per taes they are not
necessarily suitable for hatching they
they might be a great product to
speculate um but if you want to really
hatch yourself on chain let's say you're
an option protocol and you need to hatch
your books um the existing products are
not necessarily what you want to use
because your costs of using them are are
very high cool and then the last kind of
definition is a just derivative pricing
model so how do you price the product so
how do you price per right so you have
spot some exchanges take decision to
Simply price the per at spot so the
entry price you pay is is the current
spot price um but that's not um so in
that case your derivative pricing
approach would be very simple what we do
is is different um so we have a model
that looks at the the risk from a from
an exchange point of view and tries to
set the the right price for the
Perpetual given the state of the
exchange so in a in a in in a nutshell
if a the amm is always the counterpart
to every trade and if in a given
Perpetual the amm has a net exposure
let's say net long um every Trader that
enters and increases that net long
exposure pays a premium and every Trader
that enters and decreases that net long
exposure so reduces the risk from a from
an exchange perspective um gets a rebate
and that premium and rebate are
determined by the the pricing approach
that that we use cool I am like torn on
which direction to take this
conversation right now because we did
just go through a the Bitcoin having and
I'm not sure if that had an impact on
the MVP that you guys have released
because you have released um uh DX on X
layer which is uh ok X's L2 uh the okx
exchanges L2 um and we're definitely
going to talk about this you guys have
seen a lot of users on testet um but I
guess to kind of pull on this thing that
just happened in the crypto industry
which was the Bitcoin having how does
the uh reduction in bitcoin's emission
uh Supply how does that impact kind of
the work that you've been doing and the
work that you are doing right now have
you noticed any difference at all or is
it just kind of a macro thing that is
somewhat related to uh creating a
Perpetual Market but not really um what
are kind of the
relationships I mean it it has some
price impacts it doesn't directly that
doesn't directly impact what you're
doing but it's you can use the product
to speculate on those price impacts
right it might have drawn or it is
drawing more attention to the space in
general and does to us as well which
helps um but I think first and foremost
this is kind of an event that affects
the supply side of of Bitcoin and and
has price implications but doesn't have
like first order effect on on thex per
se I would say but definitely an
interesting event right I mean always
great to see kind of I mean you can use
very simple economic models to think
about that right and it's great to see
that life um for to you know repeat
multiple times and you can draw your
conclusions around that but on on the
building part I would say there's not a
direct impact on us so I just want to um
pull on the Bitcoin theme a little bit
longer um this was the fourth having we
went through this was the first having
where the price of Bitcoin reached an
all-time high before the having event
actually happened so I'm curious just
from your Quant mind um and your kind of
like macroeconomics mind what are some
other interesting figures statistics
insights anything like that that you're
walking away from this most recent
having I like economists like stuff to
be
simple so if you like simple stuff and
you really take your economics 101 hat
and look at the Bitcoin Market as a
supply and demand um
diagram I mean the H thing is basically
shifting your supply curve to the left
so for any given price you reduce Supply
um now the second main event is changing
the demand curve I would say um which is
um you have more Capital this inflowing
true ETFs um you have more traditional
Capital this inflowing your ETFs which
means that your demand curve which
before might have been mainly affected
by retail entering and exiting for Mo in
and then panicking um in in Winter now
you have a different component you have
like more institutional Capital that's
in there uh you have like even Pension
funds that are starting to slowly deploy
right so your demand curve shifts if you
stay in a very simple model um will be
more driven by what is driving risk
Assets in general um interest rate uh
repricing effects for example
um than than has been the case before
and I think this is something also what
we see right now right so we had the
Hing yesterday I think it was 24th of
April you had the first first time when
black Black Rock Spot ETF didn't have
any uh
inflows um this is kind of occurring at
the same time as you have the market
repricing um interest rate um future
interest rate movements from on the on
the US side and I don't think that's a
coincidence and I think that's going to
happen more often so the demand side
will I expect the demand side to be more
affected by traditional markets and and
at the same time the next housing will
even be smaller in terms of quantity
that Supply is being reduced so I think
where we are heading is a a rather
boring Bitcoin market so that's that's
my key takeaway um but yeah yeah when I
I bought my first Bitcoin in the summer
of 2017 and the running narrative back
then was the institutions are coming the
institutions are coming and I haven't
felt like the institutions were coming
until maybe 2021
2022 and now here in 2024 we have spot
Bitcoin ETFs in the US we have Hong Kong
that's that just approved eth and and
Bitcoin ETFs so maybe the institutions
are coming but are they coming into the
space through a traditional Finance
rapper like an ETF or are they going to
be you know silently experimenting with
like DX and other kind
of Crypton native blockchain native um
applications what's kind of your outlook
on how the institutions are coming into
this space first and foremost through
traditional um iconism I think at least
right now
um I think the appetite for a for a bank
to at this point in time really play
around with defi is limited especially I
mean in the US I think it's inexistent
uh in Europe it's it might be there but
it's limited um but I believe this will
change over time um
[Music]
so as as an N cost they are definitely
here they invest in it um I got like an
ad from my um pension fund company
recently hey do you want to invest 5% of
your pension fund in Bitcoin uh so
they're definitely here for for for this
type of um U for this aspect but I don't
think uh any especially not any large
bank is currently really looking into
defi but I think this will change uh
this will change if there's some more
clarity uh around how defi um can be
treated from a from a regulatory point
of view so d8x is uh it's a
decentralized financial application can
you just kind of walk us through uh some
of the projects and studies that led you
up to building this how did did you guys
determine uh we're going to offer
Perpetual Futures markets as opposed to
building a spot deck or building a
predictions Market or leveraging the
skill set that you guys have to build
any other sort of defi application how
did you uh settle on this solution so we
we looked at the existing onchain
Solutions we thought that um there is
room um for improvement especially from
a financial engineering point you spot
markets are relatively simple to do I
believe also perhaps it's not rocket
science right but it's it's a bit more
complex from a from a risk point of view
and to do that in a decentralized way on
chain is not so simple um so that's
something that that was intriguing us um
my my
co-founder uh was also heavily into into
per at the time I had um some research
out there on on on how that works this
kind of this the skill set was there the
product is the one which arguably has
the best product Market fit currently um
so from a business point of view it
makes sense um and we we thought that we
can pull off the risk part as well so
those things came together and thex was
here so who are who are your users are
they like retail degenerates are they um
maybe uh like institutional curious
folks are they they are they Traders by
profession and and maybe defi is what
they do on their spare time um who have
you found has been using DX on testnet
so far so um as of today we we are live
on polygon ckvm mainnet and um we are
about to go live on on on on X layer
mainnet as well um on ckvm mainnet and
testet you mainly have defi users that
that trade um we do have some onchain
protocols um that are currently
integrating to hatch themselves uh which
is one of the key us cases we U think
the adex can offer um and we are also
looking at um or talking to more
traditional players that are interested
to offer that to their centralized uh
ret still retail audience um so I would
say the large majority right now are
um retail Traders but um we talked
before about the derivative pricing
approach that we use um so this opens up
a bunch of interesting Arbitrage
opportunities between us and other um
markets spot or per um so whenever you
have let's say an imbalance on Exchange
uh and that Premia or that rebate is
relatively large you can AR that and
that's something which is interesting to
um funds that run uh delta neutral
control on chain strategies as
well so you mentioned basically uh
chains that were built by polygon and by
okx how do you guys go about choosing
which blockchains to build on top of is
it relationship based is it technology
oriented what does that process look
like so we originally decided to start
on polygon ckvm chain um that was mainly
a technology B that we made um we looked
at what they were building we thought
that from a from a CK rollup point of
view um what they do make sense um we
expanded to chains that are in that
ecosystem so polygon has this chain
development kit cdk kit that allows um
organizations like okx to um spin up X
layer their current L2 solution the what
we like about that is that there is the
the vision of having the a layer
basically which is connecting all those
um cdk chains by default also others um
but that means you can essentially
execute um AAP um from chain a that is
sitting on chain B and it's relatively
simple to also have shared liquidity so
for us everything that is within that
ecosystem is interesting but obviously
not only so I mean from from a from a
tech point of view we are evm compatible
so any any evm chain could be
interesting as long as there is a market
for for DX the market might be retail
but the market might also be other
protocols that are interested in in
hatching their books in an efficient way
got it so the the chain development kits
are kind of what makes it easy to
interoperate between different chains
right now just because there is that
composability between support that is
available for zkm and X layer right now
correct so polygon is building what they
call the aggregation layer which
ultimately connects all those um chains
together and the vision they they have
and I think it's it's it's a good one is
to have that as kind of a shared
liquidity layer that allows you to to
interact seamlessly in in in a way
they're not there yet um they hope to
take the next steps toward towards the
end of the year but from from a vision
point of view this looks very
interesting I kind of want to brag for
you guys you reach 15,000 users on
xlayer testet which is awesome I mean to
to even get like a thousand users for
test net is amazing so how did you guys
go about building that kind of Splash so
that 15,000 people would want to test
did you go through some sort of um
trading campaign did you do some sort of
marketing campaign in collaboration with
okx how did that how did you guys do
that that's that's very successful is it
is it replicable I don't know maybe
um the we I think what helped was that
we are the first per deck on X layer um
so that's definitely um an added benefit
then um we were one of the first STS
that deployed there um and we worked
closely with okx during uh a campaign
that they made that definitely also
helped and now we are um one of the
first steps that is on on Main net
xlayer main net and the first proex
there as well so we I think the the
combination between being the first
perex having okx as an ecosystem partner
that that helps uh was was kind of a big
part in in in in achieving those those
numbers and we are right now um gearing
up to replicate that on me awesome is is
so I hadn't heard of xlayer until
digging into the work that you guys were
doing so is xlayer also um zero
knowledge enabled uh what are kind of
the interesting technical aspects of
this chain they rely on polygons uh
chain development kit so it's it's a
chain built with polygon's chain
development kit um the difference to for
example c um ckvm is the the data layer
so they are not writing the data
directly on on L1 um they they use
Celestia as as a data layer but from a
from a from a tech point of view like
high level it's it's a polygon cdk chain
um that relies on on the same Tech that
that ckm does um and the the interesting
part for us was that Outlook to have
unified liquidity as as a perex and
that's a very positive feature to have
so it sounds like you've you've
mentioned unified uh liquidity maybe
half a dozen times already
so it's it's I get it you want to be
able to to move assets from chain a to
chain B and you want to be able to do it
seamlessly and quickly we don't want to
bridge we don't want to bridge on and
and maybe lose my assets take seven days
to bridge off um so this makes a lot of
sense but what about the uh privacy uh
enabled does the amm that you guys uh
host does that require privacy features
do you have to hide onchain transactions
so that maybe somebody doesn't perform a
sandwich attack or game um somebody's uh
potential trade or numbers that they
want to trade at how does like privacy
technology
EMP what you guys are doing and and I
guess also would you have been able to
build d8x like four years ago before
there was all the ZK technology that's
starting to come live I mean we we can
deploy DX on a non ZK uh rooll up that's
not a problem at all um we technically
could deploy it on Main net but just too
expensive right uh so from uh from a
piracy point of view what is interesting
and that's a feature that we offer but
what none of our current Partners is yet
yet using uh is to have private partner
specific order books um so you can think
about um let's say you're a white level
partner you um have an order book and
you only send orders uh on chain once
they can be immediately executed so
nobody sees that besides you as a white
level partner so there is a trust
assumption there uh from from a user
perspective but nobody else he said
right now by by default um our um order
books are public the ones that we
currently deployed and you can go and
and check what orders are sitting there
we really decentralized every aspect um
including order execution that means
that anybody can be an Executor which
also means that uh you need to be able
to query what orders exist um and are
the condition met such that they can be
executed and if yes you can um relay
that order to The Exchange and earn an
Executor fee so that's kind of the the
default setup but um especially if you
dable into more institutional uh
partners that might want to also hide
order books for their clients um that
that's possible with the system we have
but not yet deployed just to be like
clear is is the order book on chain yes
so you post all the orders on chain um
you can use our SDK or um run one of our
Bots to to grab the orders and you can
execute them the same for liquidations
anybody can be a liquidator you can
check the existing positions you can see
is position liquidable uh you can
initiate the liquidation um so we we I
mean this was one of the key features
which we wanted to have we don't want to
have a centralized bottleneck we don't
have just one set of Executives that we
are running uh one set of Liquidators we
don't have just one front end we have
multiple front ends so we really tried
to decentralize the whole um exchange
stack if you if you can name it like
that um from start to the end forgive me
if this question doesn't make sense I I
just know enough to be dangerous about
D5 but I'm not in the weeds like you are
so um what were kind of the reasons why
you guys chose an onchain order book
versus like an automated Market
maker okay so we have an amm um but um
you can place conditional orders um
let's say you place a limit order uh you
say I want to buy uh if Bitcoin is at
50k um then that limit order is sent to
the Limit order book and an Executor can
come and relay that to the amm now the
am then checks are the conditions
satisfied or not if the conditions are
satisfied the order is executed if not
uh the order is not executed so this is
from a but this allows you to have the
amm setup but but also to conditional
orders cool thank you I think something
else that was that kind of like popped
out to me is that d8x is leveraging path
Network for Oracle price feeds so or
pith sorry so why did the team choose
pith which is relatively new I mean the
team's been building for for a couple
years but like chain link is kind of the
OG status for Oracle feeds in in the web
3 space yeah so what made you guys go
with pith over chain link so pith is our
main Oracle um at the time we start
building that pith was and I think still
is the the leading um pool Oracle so you
have essentially two fundamental Oracle
designs one is like I would call it the
Legacy push model where an oracle pushes
prices on chain um they stay there and
and protocols grab them um and they
regularly push every few seconds um
which also means the price that has been
pushed can be read on chain and you can
front run that so as soon as you have a
m pool as soon as you you can read those
those prices you have an attack Vector
um that you need to somehow mitigate
from a from a protocol design point of
view um the pool model is different so
whenever you place a trade you ask for
um the most recent price um and you send
that price together with your order uh
to to The Exchange and that's what pith
had um they are not the only one that
currently has that as of today but when
we started building they were kind of um
the first big um pool um Oracle that was
out there uh that's why we ultimately
went with them so we we we wanted to
have um that type of pool approach chain
link is now pushing something similar um
they have it life on arbitrum I believe
um so that is also an interesting option
so we but the main reason was really the
the design and we wanted to minimize
attack
vectors how long have you guys been
building datx um when did like the idea
conceptualize and then when did you guys
start like bringing on developers to
build it out and then when did the first
kind of MVP go out live my co-founder
started to work on the conceptual Parts
the financial engineering model
relatively early I think late late 21
early 22 um we then started to build the
code base for a project we have been
doing consulting work for and then took
that um and made it into thex uh we went
fulltime on thex in I think early 23
yeah yeah I guess January 23 um and then
made a preit round in summer last year
polygon Ventures and and other investors
and went on zvm Main net
in late December last year um and xlayer
Main net now in in
April um when we were having at the
beginning of the conversation we were
kind of tongue and cheek talking about
how forecast models are never right are
there any um
surprises that you and your team have
found uh both on ZK evm main net and
maybe now with X layer test net that
caught you guys off guard some valuable
lessons learned that you were able to
implement into d8x was there kind of any
gotchas or surprises that happened to
you guys after going live I mean that
there is like like challenges that come
up when you build on a new chain uh
that's something that we underestimated
at at the start so if you build on
something that's fairly established like
arbitrum your life is considerably
simpler um then when you build on
something that is new where rpcs don't
work at the start and you know you have
to figure out stuff um so this is
something that that we we learned from a
like Risk Management point of view the
system worked as we as we thought it
would so that was positive um so no no
surprise from from that point of view
but definitely the the challenges of
building in a new environment for this
space you I mean this is something which
we which we learned for sure so we're
kind of nearing the end of our time and
I kind of the last few questions I want
to zoom out and maybe talk about broader
kind of Trends or just kind of like
bigger Less in the weeds things um I'm
just curious to hear what your
perspective is on the Outlook of macro
we talked about us interest rate we
talked about us interest rates uh the
appetite for risk on assets um earlier
in this episode but are there
maybe maybe a good way to put this is
are there any blockchain enabled daps or
trading tools or processes that make it
possible to hedge against this type of
uncertainty moving forward or if not are
there any other kind of macro trends
that you're keeping your ear to the
ground for as it relates to the work
that you're doing on the perex micro
Outlook I think is mixed right now so I
would not be surprised if you see a
relatively rough for risk on assets
until um it's clear what happens and
when it happens to to interest rates in
the US I think so Switzerland started to
cut as the first um major if you can
call that economy uh they they have cut
it a few weeks back uh I think the
European Union like the ECB will follow
um relatively soon uh the US not so sure
now that that gives some headwind I I
would say uh if you want a hatch that I
mean is your view is that risk assets
have a hard time you short them you can
do that on DX or on any other um uh
exchange that allows you to trade per or
or Futures in general I mean you that
there are definitely ways to hatch
yourself um I think long term or longer
term um it's clear that interest rates
will come down uh also in the US uh and
it's clear that this will have an impact
on a positive impact on on on on risk
assets my forecasting models are out
broken so my timing is not not the one
you should listen to but I think from a
high level um perspective for what will
happen this this is the way I would look
at it or I guess to to add on to that
are there any uh defi trends that you're
Keen to watch play out and what are
those so um we are looking with a very
interested eye on anything think that is
close to liquid reaking tokens um I
think there are some protocols that get
it right um so the way they set it up
the way they designed their LRT um I
think what we will see uh is um
different per dexes for example maybe
thex uh that use lrts and lsts as
collateral so that means as a user what
you will be able to do is you can trade
um um while your collateral keeps
earning for you and as an LP you can
become an LP and you can earn um on top
of what you already earn from lrgs and
LSS so this is something which is I
would say the closest to us and and for
me at this point like um very
interesting um and they're also actively
looking into that are there any projects
that you think are uh more particularly
sound or you're interested in
implementing into d8x am I asking too
much
no but I mean we Rec like this week we
had like a de pegging event in in one of
the major um players in the space so I
think there are some design principles
which um seem to be more prudent than
others
um I I mean yeah I I personally like
ethery uh the way they approach it um so
always happy to look out for potential
collaboration there um but they are not
by far not the the only player that that
gets stuff right I think just the
Outlook of um being able to to use
productive assets um when when trading
uh is interesting per se I also think uh
there are many projects that work on um
yield bearing
staes for example angle uh I like what
they did with their um yield bearing
Euro they now just replicated that
playbook for uh the US dollar they they
um brought stake USD to Market um which
I think is also very interesting uh we
didn't I didn't ask this earlier when we
were talking about the platform what are
the assets that DX supports on mainnet
right now on zkm we are in in a beta
phase so we have just um FX and like uh
we have the the Euro there and um some
Blue Chips um on X layer we will um
we're about to launch uh usdc collateral
pool and an okb collateral pool um in
each pool you will have quick crypto
Blue Chips and then more longer tail um
cryptos and then we will also have FX
rates uh we can do Commodities as well
um so if you look at testet we have gold
and and other Commodities up there uh we
just take it from step by step and see
what what what people are interested in
using but from a from a design point of
view we could basically support anything
for which we can get the spot
price um cool I think it's I always feel
bad asking this question especially when
you just spend like the whole 45 minutes
50 minutes talking about how you spent
all this time a year and a half to
finally launch on Main net uh but like
what's next what's on the road map I
know that main net on um X layer is a
Monumental achievement being on two
being live on two main Nets um maybe for
the rest of the year what are you guys
uh hoping to achieve what do you uh have
your eye on um what's kind of like maybe
a larger scale road map item so we will
for sure launch on the third chain this
year we will for sure add um interesting
collateral options uh some of them I
might have touched upon earlier uh to
the to the exchange and we will um
integrate more Partners so you will see
more wi table Partners tapping into DX
using DX to serve their own um retail
clients I think this is the three most
important product specific um points
which will come out we also will launch
our DX governance token to bring
decentralization one step further out
this will also happen um in in this year
so exciting pack uh congratulations I
mean to to ideate and then raise and
then launch in one year uh is great um
and then to have these really exciting
items on the road map it just it's nice
to to feel like there's progress to be
had and made um so folks want to keep up
to date with you or with what you guys
are doing at datex uh what's the best
way that they can do that right now
Twitter I would look at datex onore
exchange um or you can also visit dx.
exchange um and find all the links there
a good place to talk is Discord um we
have quite an active Discord Community
also if you have questions want to
interact have proposals if you want to
use those as a wi label solution just
hop into Discord um and and and ping one
of the team somebody ping me ping
anybody um happy to talk awesome well
Casper thank you so much for spending an
hour to talk about your per decks it was
awesome really fun to dig into uh for
research I found it fascinating to hear
about the ecosystem you're building in
and why and also just really liked to
talk to a quantitative Economist I don't
think I've ever had one of you guys on
the Pod before so it was a pleasure
thanks a lot for having me it was great
conversation awesome well I look forward
to sharing this with everyone and uh
hopefully we can have you back on the
pod in in a year or two have a good one
you too bye-bye cheers